Assemble 1.0 changelog (#450)
datalad/datalad-next: CHANGELOG.md

# 1.0.0 (2023-09-25)

This release represents a milestone in the development of the extension.

> The package is reorganize to be a collection of more self-contained

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The package is reorganized to be a collection of more self-contained
```

> mini-packages. Each with its own set of tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mini-packages, each with its own set of tests.
```

either combine those two sentences, or give the second sentence an (auxiliary) verb

Developer documentation and guidelines have been added to aid further
development. One particular goal is to establish datalad-next as a proxy
for importing datalad-core functionality for other extensions. Direct imports
from datalad-core can be minimized in favor of imports from datalad-next

> to enable the identification of functionality needed outside the core package,

Reviewer: this sentence is somewhat difficult to parse. Maybe you should rephrase it into something actionable to emphasize the envisioned usage a bit more? ("Extensions should minimize imports from datalad-core, and instead import functionality from datalad-next. This can help to identify functionality from datalad-core that is also needed outside of the core package, ..."
But it could also already help to break this sentence into smaller sentences or resolve the nominalization "enable the identification of functionality", which I believe is the phrase posing the biggest hurdle

Author: Posted a rephrasing below -- will close this conversation here.

> for importing datalad-core functionality for other extensions. Direct imports
> from datalad-core can be minimized in favor of imports from datalad-next
> to enable the identification of functionality needed outside the core package,
> and to aid its maintenance, and guide efforts for improvements.

Author: ```suggestion
for importing datalad-core functionality for other extensions. Direct imports
from datalad-core can be minimized in favor of imports from datalad-next.
This helps identifying functionality needed outside the core package,
and guides efforts for future improvements.
```

  represents a snapshot of continued development towards a standardization of
  credential handling workflows.

- The annex remotes `uncurl` and `archivist` are replacements for the
  datalad-core implementations `datalad` and `datalad-archive`. The offer
  substantially improved configurability and leaner operation -- built on the
  `UrlOperations` framework.

- A growing collection of iterator (see `iter_collections`) aims to provide
  fast (and more Pythonic) operations on common data structures (Git worktrees,
  directories, archives). The can be used as an alternative to the traditional
  `Repo` classes (`GitRepo`, `AnnexRepo`) from datalad-core.

- Analog to `UrlOperations` the `ArchiveOperations` framework aims to provide
  an abstraction for operations on different archive types (e.g., TAR). The
  represent an alternative to the traditional implementations of
  `ExtractedArchive` and `ArchivesCache` from datalad-core, and aim at leaner
  resource footprints.

- The collection of runtime patches for datalad-core has been further expanded.
  All patches are now individually documented, and applied using a set of standard

>   helpers (see http://docs.datalad.org/projects/next/en/latest/patches.html).

Reviewer: I like that this points to documentation for further reading
